# KirikkaleOnlineTipMerkezi
Telemedicine e-health concultancy system
PROJECT TEXT
      Telehealth is the distribution of health-related services and information through electronic information and telecommunications technologies. Allows long-distance patient and clinician contact, care, advice, reminders, education, intervention, monitoring, and remote admission. Telemedicine is used in a more limited sense to describe remote clinical services such as diagnosis and monitoring. Telehealth can bridge this gap when rural settings, lack of transport, lack of mobility, conditions resulting from epidemics or pandemics, declining funding or lack of staff limit access to care. In addition to providing distance education; meetings, presentations between doctors; provides online information and health data management and health system integration. Telehealth may involve two clinicians discussing a case via videoconference; a robotic surgery performed via remote access; physical therapy with digital monitoring devices, combinations of applications; tests are transmitted between facilities for interpretation by a higher expert; home monitoring through continuous sending of patient health data; online conferencing from client to practitioner; it even includes video phone interpretation during a consultation.
      Telehealth is sometimes discussed interchangeably with telemedicine, telemedicine being more common than telehealth applications. The Health Resources and Services Administration distinguishes telehealth from telemedicine in its scope and defines telemedicine as only defining remote clinical services such as diagnosis and monitoring, while telehealth includes the delivery of preventive, supportive and curative care. This includes specified non-clinical practices such as management and provider training.
      The United States Department of Health and Human Services states that the term telehealth includes "non-clinical services such as provider training, administrative meetings, and continuing medical education" and that the term telemedicine means "remote clinical services."
The World Health Organization uses telemedicine to describe all aspects of health care, including preventive care. The American Telemedicine Association uses the terms telemedicine and telehealth interchangeably, but agrees that telehealth is sometimes used more broadly for remote health that does not involve active clinical treatments. eHealth is another related term used as an umbrella term that includes telehealth, electronic medical records and other components of health information technology, particularly in the UK and Europe.
Purpose of My Project
      The aim of my project is to meet the basic care and testing needs of the elderly or disabled people, when the rural environments, lack of transportation, lack of mobility, conditions caused by epidemics or pandemics, reduced funding or lack of staff, together with the developing technology, will not be able to provide transportation from their home to the hospital. I am providing this web service so that people can be monitored more closely by health personnel. In this way, people who cannot reach the hospital can make tests that can be done in the hospital, but can also be carried out in home conditions that do not require much equipment, to explain their complaints online and to benefit from health services, so that registered users can make an online appointment with specialist doctors in their field and transfer their complaints to their e-mail address on the date of the appointment. With the online interview link sent by our doctors, in accordance with the KVKK rules, our doctors can determine the meeting time according to the patient's condition, listen to their complaints and initiate them to the relevant health services and drug supplements in line with their complaints. I am developing this project in order to be taken from the patient's home under the necessary conditions and conditions and to provide care under hospital conditions.

Similar or Same Examples in Turkey and the World
      Similar or identical examples of my project in Turkey and in the world are as follows; As a result of the review of the literature within the scope of the project, T.C. The Telemedicine System of the Ministry of Health is a system that allows accessing images of radiological examinations on the web 7x24, reporting these images, teleconsulting between radiologists, evaluating medical images and reports in terms of quality, and sharing them with citizens via the e-Pulse application. Telemedicine service provided by the Ministry of Health;
Radiological Reporting aims to provide faster reports to patients by balancing the distribution of radiologist workload between hospitals.
It is possible to reach a more accurate diagnosis by teleconsultation, by consulting the physicians in the higher specialties of the cases examined by the radiologists.
Quality Control aims to continuously increase the quality of radiology service by regularly auditing the images and radiological reports taken throughout the country.
With e-Pulse Integration, it is possible for citizens to access their own images on the Telemedicine-Teleradiology system via e-Pulse.
       It has similarities with many systems such as the Ministry of Health, e-pulse, MHRS system and private appointment systems of university hospitals, and I am developing this application for Kırıkkale Medical University, which is currently a university hospital. Thanks to this application, in order to minimize the difficulties experienced by the patients who need to be referred to other departments with an appointment from any department, in case the pre-diagnosis or the patient's disease and the department that needs an appointment are explained to the patient, the patient should use the hospitals consciously, and our hospitals and healthcare professionals will be able to use the hospitals online and at home. With the test service, it is aimed to alleviate the burden on them and to enable the patient to reach the diagnosis and result of the disease quickly.
       There are similar and the same examples in the world, this system is developing quite a lot, and it is thought that health services can be provided in the Metaverse environment of the health system with the rapid progress of the pandemic and technology. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) statements, concepts such as telemedicine (e-health) are also used to provide online health education and health services to less developed countries. Studies are being developed for the course and prevention of diseases by using artificial intelligence models on these diseases by taking the data of many patients.




1.3 Scope of the Project
      The scope of my project has a very wide target audience since it is about health. Since the health system does not have an age scale starting from birth, it is a project that covers all humanity for every age group and every health problem. We can say that the scope of the project is every patient who can provide internet access. (Rural environments, lack of transportation, lack of mobility, conditions caused by epidemics or pandemics, decreasing funding or lack of personnel, meeting the basic care and testing needs of the elderly or disabled, people in need of care or those who cannot reach the hospital from their homes can be monitored more closely by health personnel. can be used within the scope.)

1.4 Project Content
      The content of my project is to register to Kırıkkale Online Medical Center, which I have created, and to provide a web service where individuals of all ages can easily log in with their e-mail addresses. It is easy to understand and does not have a complex structure in terms of ease of use. In this way, each individual can easily register and log in, get help from the Smart assistant about their ailments, benefit from home testing services, benefit from the expert health staff of Kırıkkale University Faculty of Medicine, make an appointment at the clinics, and talk to their doctor about health complaints with online interview links sent only to the person, If there are prescribed drugs or drugs to be used, they can order these drugs or, by providing a preliminary diagnosis, they can easily benefit from health services from the hospital with the guidance of their doctor.

1.5 Technologies Used in the Project (Platform, Language, Tools)
      I developed my project in Python language in Pycharm IDLE. I developed my project in Flask Framework so I could upload it to the web. Flask is a small framework for web development using the Python programming language. In order to create a visual design, I developed the visualization with HTML, CSS, Javascript and Bootstrap. I used many libraries of Python to develop my project. I used MongoDB as a database to perform the registration and login/logout operations of the patients. MongoDB has a scalable structure. It has a structure that supports searching its queries by field and regular definition searches. It can create multiple copies of the original data, thus preventing data loss. It allows data to be processed in bulk as well as performing collection operations. Driver support is available for most of the current programming languages. MongoDB is generally used in real-time applications where speed is important, applications with big data. I planned the online meeting environment separately. When many patients and polyclinics use the service at the same time, I think that patients and doctors will not be able to receive this service efficiently due to the density that will occur on the server, and this service can be performed more efficiently by making use of online meeting environments in appropriate time periods.
      Usage Areas of the Project
The health service I have developed can learn the symptoms that users see themselves by asking the Smart Assistant 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and they can make an appointment with the expert staff of Kırıkkale Medical Faculty and benefit from the online interview, pre-diagnosis and home test service. Therefore, with online transactions, the patient density of healthcare professionals can be alleviated, providing patients with a more devoted work, as well as preventing the density of patients in the hospital and providing better quality healthcare services. The usage areas of my project can be used as an online pre-diagnosis center of hospitals as a pre-diagnosis service for individuals who can access the internet and have health problems.
1.7 Potential and Target Users of the Project
We can say that the potential and target users of the project are anyone who can access the internet. People who cannot reach the hospital due to rural environments, lack of transportation network to the hospital, lack of mobility (elderly, bedridden or physically disabled citizens), essential conditions due to epidemics or pandemics, lack of necessary preliminary diagnosis or health personnel due to the treatment of a limited number of patients due to the decreasing budget of the hospital. It can be used within the scope of meeting the basic care and testing needs of the elderly or disabled people, and keeping the health personnel under closer monitoring of the people in need of care or those who cannot reach the hospital from their homes. When it becomes a health practice, it reminds patients who forget their medications and forget their medications, and ensures that the patient gets the maximum benefit from drug therapy.

1.8 Infrastructure, Hardware and Software Features of the Project
In order for the project to be realized in online systems, it can be used for the purpose of performing the necessary preliminary diagnosis or monthly routine checks of the patients, who can access the registered patient database and communicate with the patients who have made an appointment via e-mail, recording from multiple multimedia environments and providing video calls in accordance with the KVKK rules. Since many patients will benefit from this application and the bandwidth of each person connected to the application will not be the same, uninterrupted server and host service should be provided so that it can be used in online transactions. As a hardware feature, it is expected that the patient and the doctor will meet the infrastructure and hardware services such as camera and internet in order to have the most efficient interview after making an appointment with the doctor. In order to establish this system, a web service and an uninterrupted server service should be used where data about patients can be stored securely.

Project Improvement Suggestions
In terms of improving my project, we can say that forgetfulness is the biggest disease of our age, and as a suggestion for improvement, I aim to make the treatment process effective by making and activating the medication reminder page as a mobile application, ensuring that each individual using this application takes the drugs in the system on time. When I provide the necessary service infrastructure (server, bandwidth, etc.), I aim to be able to provide health services at any time by providing video calls over the web and mobile application. Finding hospitals close to the location in case of emergency, providing home delivery of medicines from pharmacies near the location for emergencies, reminding the patient of the appointments and the expiry date of the prescribed drugs in the form of notification. We can adjust the nutritional habits according to this situation in order to prevent these diseases or to minimize the damage, which diseases can be caught as a genetic predisposition, and we can ensure a healthy life by shaping his life according to this situation.

1.10 Benefits of the Project
Many web and mobile applications serve with Python. (Linkedin, Pinterest etc.) Access to web services with Python I developed a project by combining technologies such as HTML, CSS, Javascript, Bootstrap, which provide visualization using the Flask Framework, with the Python programming language. It's the first time I've worked with MongoDB and I've integrated it into a web service I've set up with Python for the first time. I had the opportunity to work with a new database. I made the Flask framework connection with MongoDB. I gained a lot of information in the field of health and by reading many articles in the field of health, I learned about the developments of technology in the field of health and identified the deficiencies in this field. I learned about what can be done in this area.
